README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

## Email Verification

Account creation requires entering a code that is sent to the provided email
address. The API route `POST /api/sendVerificationEmail` uses SMTP credentials
from the environment to deliver the code.

Set the following variables in your `.env.local`:

```bash
EMAIL_SERVER_HOST=your.smtp.host
EMAIL_SERVER_PORT=587
EMAIL_SERVER_USER=username
EMAIL_SERVER_PASS=password
EMAIL_FROM="My App <no-reply@yourdomain.com>"
```

Commit message:

Use Gmail OAuth2 for verification emails

README.md, after:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/cli/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) to automatically optimize and load [Geist](https://vercel.com/font), a new font family for Vercel.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/deploying) for more details.

## Email Verification

Account creation requires entering a code that is sent to the provided email
address. The API route `POST /api/sendVerificationEmail` now uses Gmail OAuth2
instead of plain SMTP.

### Setup steps

1. In Google Cloud Console enable the **Gmail API** and create an **OAuth client**.
2. Add `https://www.mycellarapp.com` as an authorized redirect URI and obtain
   your client ID and client secret.
3. Generate a refresh token for `mycellarapplication@gmail.com` by completing
   the OAuth consent flow. Tools like the
   [`googleapis`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/googleapis) CLI or your own
   script can be used for this step.
4. Create `.env.local` with the variables below:

```bash
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id.apps.googleusercontent.com
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
GMAIL_REFRESH_TOKEN=your-refresh-token
GMAIL_USER=mycellarapplication@gmail.com
NEXT_PUBLIC_URL=https://www.mycellarapp.com
```

When these values are present, the API route sends emails from the Gmail
account using OAuth2.
